It was the best of times, it was the worst of times, it was the age of wisdom, it was the age of foolishness, it was the epoch of belief, it was the epoch of incredulity, it was the season of Light, it was the season of Darkness, it was the spring of hope, it was the winter of despair, we had everything before us, we had nothing before us, we were all going direct to Heaven, we were all going direct the other way – in short, the period was so far like the present period, that some of its noisiest authorities insisted on its being received, for good or for evil, in the superlative degree of comparison only.

There were a king with a large jaw and a queen with a fair face, on the throne of England. There were a king with a large jaw and a queen with a fair face, on the throne of France. In both countries it was clearer than crystal clear that things in general were settled for ever.

A solemn consideration, when I enter a great city at night, that every one of those darkly clustered houses encloses its own trouble – its own burden of sorrow, regret, or bereavement. Some, too, are darkened by such cares and such business as would make the angels weep. I have never been told by the spirit of any departed person, whether such revelations are possible or not; but I have often thought, what a tremendous business this printing of mine might be, if I should ever come back to earth, and behold for instance my old occupation made manifest in the streets of London! But what is the use of speculating on such things, when there are so many certainties to concern ourselves with?

In those days, travellers were coming and going between France and England by packet-boat, and one traveller in particular was about to make a journey that would change the course of history. He was a man of some thirty years of age, with a sensitive face and an expression of deep melancholy. His name was Jarvis Lorry, and he was a representative of Tellson's Bank, a venerable establishment in the City of London.

"I am going," said Mr. Lorry, looking about the coffee-house, "to dig some one out of a grave."

The words were strange; but the confidence with which they were uttered was strange too. It was the manner of a man speaking of a business transaction, to be recorded in the ordinary course of events. The listener – he was a young lady of extraordinary beauty, dressed in black, with a long veil – listened with profound attention.

"This is a trying time," she observed, "for many."

"Indeed it is, Miss Manette. Indeed it is. And I am entrusted with a mission that requires both discretion and fortitude."

The young lady inclined her head. She had been living in seclusion since her childhood, knowing nothing of the world. She was about to learn that the world, and more particularly the history of her own family, was far more complex and terrible than she had ever imagined.
